know I would not
have done anything
basically different from what you have seen in
other parts of the world and country and so forth uh
what is it that makes the I assume you feel that the
Woodlands is a rather distinctive uh community
enterprise what is it that is in your mind very
distinctive or unique or special about the
Woodlands I I would think that used to be a
preservation of the natural environment that we
all have tuned in very, very well. I mean, everyone
from the secretaries all the way to the personnel
in the field, to the designer, to the engineer, to
surveyor, everybody's tuned in in preserving the
natural environment. I think that's what sets us
apart. Has that been a cost-efficient kind of
thing, that effort? On the overall picture,
absolutely. Yes, sir. It might be... It might have
been more economical to put a bulldozer over here
and cut down all the trees and start building
houses. However, by the time you start planting
the trees back and reforest the land back, it's
going to cost you more. So the way it has been done
for a long time, and on the overall cost
effectiveness, it is the best way we're doing it.
Because you can never, never be able to duplicate
the natural environment, no matter how hard you
try. And I understand that that design has also
contributed to making your utility systems, your
fluids, your water supply systems, drainage, and
all that much more cost efficient. Is that right?
Or not? Well, that's a reasonable thought. It can
go both ways. However, the increment, if there is
an increment of cost there, it's so minute you're
not going to be able to find it. Yes, there is. It's
obvious. I'm not going to sit down over here and
argue the point at all. If you had a grid system, for
example, a grid system of streets,
and then the reason to assume Like you're going to
put a manhole over here, a manhole over here, and
every 300 feet, you're going to have another
manhole. If those streets instead of being
straight, on the curve, you cannot stretch a piece
of pipe. You cannot curve a piece of pipe around it.
Pipes are going to have to be straight. And
therefore, every time you get away from the cord,
system, and then you've got to put another
manhole. Another manhole, that's another $900,
for example. So that's an additional cost.
However, in the overall, when it costs you $10,000
per lot of water source and drainage and roads to
develop, that cost is lost, really. Aside from
that, that cost is associated with municipal
utility districts, which is like a mortgage. You
pay over a 30-year period, so you don't even see it,
really. It's not even the quote of the purchase and
the price, because you pay over a 30-year period of
time. So that's your only disadvantage, if any, I
would call it
that. Well, I think that's about all I can pick up to
ask about. Maybe, is there anything we have? There
are some beautiful things that we have done. very
timely basis, really, because we are associated
with the development on day in and day out. Like,
for example, Lake Woodlands. It was a very timely,
very timely type of a project. It was during the
downturn of the economy, really, where Mr.
Mitchell said that since we have the plans and the
permit to do the Lake Woodlands, Let's go ahead and
see if we can find a contractor who is willing to
keep his equipment busy and see if they're willing
to give us a good price and do liquid. And we looked
around. We found somebody up in Wisconsin who had a
whole bunch of equipment, really, available. And
he wanted to put them in here. And then we started
looking around over here from local people.
Zachary Construction out of San Antonio, they had
a whole bunch of equipment. They did a beautiful
job there, very little cost. Not very little cost.
Sure. They kept the- But it was- They did not make
any profit. Compared to what you had spent five
years earlier, it was- Right. Or- Yeah. That is
correct, because they did not want- they did not-
they were trying to keep their personnel busy so
they would not lose their organization and their
equipment. The equipment- idle equipment, you
know, they're just a waste, not a waste. At least
this way they were able to keep their personnel
busy. to maintain their organization and also
keep their costs down. Your work is running. You
work five years in advance of what happens, I
guess. And more so. More than five years. It starts
anywhere from one year to about before the house is
on. I would say our work is finished about 12 months
before you find the elements of the house or the
community, from one year all the way up to 10 years
ahead. We've heard different dates now for
completing, if there is such a thing as completing
the Woodmans. Do you have any idea what you're
looking at? All depends what you call complete.
Yeah, that's the problem. I don't think the
Woodmans will ever complete. I would say the
substantial part of it, if the economy stays where
it is, the Sun Belt is supposed to be getting a very
big play as far as relocation is concerned across
the country. If that all happens, I would say 30
years from now, then 2020 would be the year, I
suppose, that you can call the wilderness
substantially complete. Yeah, we've got to pick
up that. Substantial completion. Never finish,
yeah. I suppose that this, where we are right now,
is about 20 years old. 20 years old is far.
Ordinarily, if in about 10 years' time, if the
downtown area here in the wilderness takes
substance, I'm certain that this building over
here is going to come down for something.
Something else? Something bigger than that. Do
you anticipate the great expansion that has been
projected as changing the character, possibly,
of the woodlands, or creating greater
difficulties in carrying out this basic theme of
preservation of the environment? No. The people
who live here in the wilderness, the people who
will carry the ball after us, I believe they will
see it fit to maintain, because they're not going
to be able to recreate the natural environment
that we have been able to maintain. There's going
to be some scouring, and there's going to be some
scars left. But you would be surprised how quickly
this land heals itself. If you, I don't know if you
probably have taking rides around here at night.
If you take some of the major roads, you know, and
you would see that you're in the forest. You know,
you cannot see through the woods there that there
are houses on the other side of the buffer zones.
And I guarantee you, I guarantee you that when we
started putting those roads in, when we started to
put those roads in, we had really morally damaged
the ground. Damage it. Because when you have mud
over here and you have a big old D8, you know, trying
to make inroads, they don't want to get stuck.
They're going to move around, wiggle around.
Really, you will think that they're desecrating
the land. I have to give it two or three years' time
and you see how it heals up. It heals up very
quickly. In this type of an environment, if you
don't destroy the understory, The healing
capabilities of the ground are tremendous over
here. We have a lot of water, a lot of sunshine. It
really comes like .
Well, sir, we sure thank you. Appreciate it very
much. Anytime.